>> Nina Zakharenko: What is rebase anyway?
So let's imagine that our
tech posts branch and
our master branch have diverged.
And we don't wanna have a messy
merge commit in our history.
But what we can do is we can pull
the latest changes from master.
And instead of having our
commits be mixed in somewhere
sandwiched between commits from master,
what we wanna do is we want to apply
all of our commits cleanly
on top of the master branch.
And we can do that by changing
the parent commit of our commits.
So what rebase means is give a commit
a new parent, i.e., a new base commit.
So the first thing that rebase
does is it rewinds HEAD.
So in this case,
I've checked out tech_posts.
If I want to rebase for
master, master has one new
commit since I've made my branch.
>> Nina Zakharenko: First Git
is going to rewind HEAD back to master.
It's going to end up replaying
my commits on top of HEAD.
So now giving commit 4080.
That was our original commit
on our branch, it's now gone.
And we've created a new commit, a copy
of that commit on the tech_posts branch.
And now that tech_posts branch is up to
date with the latest commit from master.
This makes resolving merge
conflicts much easier,
you can rebase pretty frequently.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
not so scary at all.
It makes history a lot neater and cleaner,
too.
>> Speaker 2: So
I missed about the merge conflict.
So if 2b25b38 has changes
in the same files as 4080a?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Then,
you'll have a conflict.
Then, you'll have to fix it.
But if there's no conflicts,
it'll just cleanly apply.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
merge versus rebase.
If we're on the tech_posts branch,
if we rebased from master,
our copy, the commit that was our
commit in the tech_posts branch
will now be a new commit
pointing to the latest master.
Or if we merged from master,
we would actually have a merge commit.
So a brand new commit would
be cluttering up history.
But if you're contributing to open source,
that's not really ideal.
Mostly, we wanna keep our history neat and
clean.
And it prevents a bunch of merge
commits from cluttering it
up.
>> Speaker 2: So
it's a little bit like a fast forward?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah, a little bit.
It's kind of pretending as
if we could fast forward
by changing our parent.
>> Nina Zakharenko: The power
of rebase really comes from interactive
rebasing, and that’s replaying commits.
When those commits are replayed,
we can edit them, we can remove them,
we can combine them,
reorder them, insert them before
they're replayed back on top of HEAD.
So we can fix them, change them,
edit the messages, do whatever we want.
Interactive rebase is done with a -i flag.
It's gonna open in an editor with a list
of to dos in the format of commands,
then commit, then commit msg.
Git is going to pick those commits
in the order that you specified.
Or it might stop to take an action
when something like an editing or
a conflict occurs.
You interactive rebase with a shortcut,
git rebase-i,
the commit that you
wanna start fixing from.
But then you should specify its parent.
>> Nina Zakharenko: All right, when this
list of to-dos opens, make sure you don't
change any of the messages in the list.
Git only ignores them.
Git ignores them.
It only looks at the [INAUDIBLE]
that are present.
So some of our rebase options, and this
will come up when you do an interactive
rebase in your editor, but in plain text,
pick will keep this commit.
Reword will keep the commit,
it's just going to change the message.
Edit will keep the commit but
stop to edit more than the message.
And squash is going to combine
this commit with the previous one.
It'll also stop to edit the message.
Fixup combine the commit with the previous
one, but keep the previous commit message.
And exec, which is really cool,
it lets you run a command on this
line after picking a previous commit.
So if you're rebasing and
you wanna run a test in the middle,
you can do that with exec.
Lastly, drop will remove the commit.
But the same thing will happen
if you just remove that line,
the commit will just be killed.
So here's an example rebase.
I'm doing a git rebase -i from
this commit in the parent.
I'm saying reword where I add
the posts/django-framework,
and squash the commit where I said,
oops, I forgot to add an index entry.
When I git log oneline, I have now
added a blog post explaining the pros and
cons of Django.
That's the new commit message
that I've done with the rebase.
And now those two commits
are smushed into one.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And when I do this,
my editor will open.
It's gonna open twice, once to reword,
that is change the commit message,
and then again to squash, combine commits.
We can also use rebase to split commits.
That is when we edit a commit, we can
also split it up into multiple commits.
Let's say your commit was too big,
had to much information in it.
You wanna make sure that your
commit is only representing kind
of one logical group of changes.
You can split it up with rebase.
I'm going to skip explaining this.
But if you have a copy of the slides and
you wanna go back to this after class,
it's on slide 150.